Brett, welcome back to Talk Python To Me. You've been here a time or two. Always great
to have you here.
Well, thanks for having me yet again, Michael. I'm glad I've not worn out my welcome quite
yet.
You always have so much cool stuff going on and so many interesting perspectives.
Some would call them interesting, whether that's a positive or negative is still open
to interpretation.
May you program in interesting times as the old ancient proverb goes.
So, been here a bunch of times, but real quick, just tell people a bit about yourself before we jump in.
Sure.
In case they don't know you.
Yeah.
Name's Brett Cannon.
I live in Vancouver on the unceded territories of the Squamish, Tsleil-Waututh, and Musqueam First Nations.
I am currently the dev manager for the Python extension in VS Code.
I am serving my fifth and as of now final term on the Python Steering Council.
I'm stepping down just because when we first created the Steering Council, I said five years
seemed like a good term limit.
We actually don't have term limits, but I figured I'd stick to my word.
And I'm also the social core developer.
I've been doing it for just over 20 years.
Lucky for me, I got my first commit bit right after the, sorry, my first commit bit after
the first PyCon.
So I get to use the PyCon anniversaries as a way to keep track of that.
So that's convenient.
That's kind of the biggies.
Have a cat.
Something about VS Code?
I've heard that word.
It's an editor, right?
Yeah, I know.
Someday you'll say you use it, and I'll be very happy that day.
I had it open today.
Oh, all right.
Well, I'm happy today then.
Yes, indeed.
No, awesome.
So many cool things you got going on.
And despite all of that background in steering council, core dev here,
this time you're here to give us like diet advice, eating advice,
like something about sugar. What is it?
Yeah. So just like story behind all this.
So my wife was taking the certificate in data science course at the University of
British Columbia, which is actually our alma mater and where we met.
And she was doing her homework in a JupyterLab notebook
through the browser via JupyterHub.
And she stopped doing the homework to go, I can't remember if it was lunch or dinner,
but basically stepped away for like an hour or so.
And then she came back and the run buttons on the cells weren't working anymore.
I was like, well, what's going on?
And I looked and I was like, oh, well, you got disconnected from the server.
And I said, well, isn't that happening in the browser?
like no python doesn't run in the browser right now it's not it's not a thing like oh okay
and then i think about a day or two later after she thought about it we were in the car and i
still remember the exact location in vancouver where this occurred my wife said you know you
should probably fix that problem of python not working in the browser and i explained like what
WebAssembly was and how big of a thing that would be to make that all happen and all that
and she literally took about a beat to wait and said no you should go fix that uh so
part of that led me down the road of trying to figure out what the minimum viable python was
right like what is the minimal amount of python i would have to implement in the browser or in or
in WebAssembly in this case to make python work and i had i realized that you know a decent amount
of Python is actually what's called syntactic sugar, which is really just syntax that you could
actually devolve and unravel into other syntax of a language and have it do the exact same thing,
right? It's just basically syntax that's a shortcut. And so I ended up going on this very long journey,
unexpectedly long, of trying to go through all of Python syntax and trying to figure out which
parts of the syntax was like crucial and you couldn't actually re-implement it in pure Python
itself and which parts you could actually just make it work with Python code itself with the idea that
at the end it would have basically a list of the bits of Python that an interpreter would have to
implement and the other bits of syntax where you could run some tool over it ahead of time
it would just translate from Python to different Python code and in that way I would just know what
the exact target would have to be.
It might not run very fast, don't get me wrong,
but it would at least be a very clear definition
of kind of what you have to have
to really call something Python
because everything else you can kind of just work around.
Right, so the standard Python syntax we expect still works,
but how much do you have to work behind the scenes
to make that happen?
So examples that come to mind for me
are context managers, the width block.
Awesome, I love them,
but we have try finally and you could simulate a context manager effectively
with maybe a try finally, maybe an accepts in there as well, but right.
You don't actually need with in the language to accomplish what it does.
Right.
Yeah.
Decorators are also another really good example, right?
Like where the concepts for that syntax pre predates it.
And it happened to just be something where Python core development team looked
at where people were in terms of development
and what they needed from Python
and realize, you know what,
that common pattern that people are doing
would be very well served via a piece of syntax.
So why don't we just do that?
Why don't we introduce that piece of syntax,
make these steps?
As you said, with context managers,
we're a perfect example, right?
Where before, if you wanted to do the right thing
when you opened a file,
is you call the open function for your file
assign it to a variable, do your try block of everything you want to do with the file.
And then in the finally part of the try finally, close that file.
Which, I mean, if you just think about it compared to a with statement,
is four lines, assuming you're doing reasonable formatting for the assignment,
the try, the finally, then the close call,
versus the single with open to get the exact same effect.
Yeah.
And then you've also got the possibility that the context manager, the thing that's used in the with block, can do something different if there's an exception, right?
Like if there's an exception, it could say if it's a database transaction, it could roll back the transaction automatically.
Rather, if there's no exception, it could commit it automatically.
Right.
But there's no real magic there if you think about it in the end.
You could have written that all out by hand.
It just would have been cumbersome.
But that makes the with statement very much a piece of syntactic sugar where you could totally write it out.
get the exact same semantic outcome probably similar performance as well and maybe yeah oh yeah
i think it depends um it really depends on the syntax right like how complicated it is how much
of it's going to call into at least in c python's case into the c code and stay in the c code
versus not like with context managers it probably won't just because the point is you're going to
call that dunder enter method or that dunder exit method so you're calling python code so
no real probably big shift but for stuff that we'll probably cover uh in this podcast there are other
bits that go into the c code and stay in the c code and when that happens stuff can go really really
fast yeah um especially with all the work the faster c python team's done around stuff and all
that so the point is you can just start to just kind of leap into c code stay there and get stuff
done way faster comparative to writing out by hand where if you're staying in the python world it can
just take a bit longer. Yeah. So sugar, the word sugar, I think it's a good one here. I love like
these ideas like code smells, code sugar, all the things. It makes it sound a little frivolous,
maybe like little, it's nice to have it sweetens it up. You don't really need it. But I do think
having these different constructs, like when you see a with block, it instantly conveys meaning.
It means we're going to create a thing.
We have a cleanup section.
We don't have to deal with it.
As opposed to if you see a try except finally, you have to read it and process it and see,
okay, does it actually do the things that would be accomplished?
I think these sugars let you also think, not just write less good, but think in different
levels of abstraction.
Yeah.
I mean, as you said, the use of the word sugar is meant to mean something sweet, something
nice.
It's a treat.
It's a bonus.
So from the perspective of if you didn't have it, you could still accomplish it.
But that can potentially, in a way, as you suggested, not quite denote the benefit of it.
Right.
Like if we think of sugar in terms of not something good for your diet.
Yeah.
What is your perspective on sugar?
Are you a fan of desserts or are you trying to cut it out?
Yeah.
Yeah, exactly.
So, but yeah, I mean, the hope is whenever we add syntax to Python, it's for everyone's
general benefit, right?
This is why we don't do it very often.
And when we do do it, it's a very thoughtful discussion, very long discussion, sometimes
contentious discussion.
Walrus operator is the famous one for that.
I don't understand the contention of the Walrus operator.
It's such a small change to the language.
There's so many other things that are bigger changes that could have been battles.
But I guess it just came to a head at that point or something, right?
Yeah.
I mean, for those of you who don't know the Walrus operator is the thing that pushed Guido
kind of over the edge to finally step down as being the bit of a dictator for life and it was
just due to the veracity of the opposition to it and just how basically angry it made people
and you're right it's very small and to be honest i've used it and i like it i get use out of it it
means it i use it for its purpose which was to add some basic syntax for those up those situations
where you always have that assignment and then you do something like an if or something and then
you're going to do something like just be able to inline certain things to just do the right thing.
It's not a huge thing, but it's a nice thing. And in that case, I don't know. Honestly,
a lot of people got really concerned that they didn't see the usefulness enough that they thought
it was going to be a slippery slope or people are always very concerned about Python getting too big
and that's no longer fitting in their brain.
Yeah.
Maybe it was kind of the last straw sort of thing
rather than like maybe stuff came before
and they're like, all right, that's it.
And now the walrus, the walrus, like, you know, I don't know.
I don't know.
I mean, I don't think people realize
that we actually cut syntax out
when we moved from Python 2 to Python 3, right?
Yeah, that was all kind of brewing.
Yeah, like the backticks went away.
Like no one knows about backticks anymore,
but we still have syntax for using backticks
and that's now, that's gone now.
So it's not like it's always been a ad, ad, ad.
But I think it's just one of these things where it's just people were very concerned
that Python would get too big, too complicated, and it wouldn't be fully understandable.
I will say whenever we do this, we very much consider how easy it would be to understand
if you saw it for the first time and never received any instruction about it, right?
Like I would argue that Waller's operator is a bit obvious if you look at the code around it
of what it does.
And so you can probably figure out what it does without being told ahead of time versus
other syntax and other languages where you go, I have no clue what this does.
Right.
Like, why does plus plus and C do different things if it's in the front or the back?
And what's the difference?
Right.
Like, unless, you know, prefix versus suffix increment and the difference in terms of referencing
the pointer and all this crazy stuff, like you're not going to pick up on the difference
unless you run your code versus something where you can just look at it and just
learn on the spot yeah so well i want to give you all a bit of a a compliment i guess or
encouragement i think the python language is not changing too fast i think it's the stability over
time is really good you compare that to other languages i mean here's one that's kind of close
to home for you since you're at microsoft like C# i feel like that language it's pretty nice
at least in the early days. And now it's, there's a whole team who are employed. You don't have to
make any comment. I know you work there, but there's a whole team who's employed to like
shepherd that language. And I feel like there's a feeling they always need to have some new language
features because it's their job to have language features. And there's just, there's just like a
constant kind of turn, like for properties, like we have properties, they have properties, but I
think there's four to five different ways that properties in C# that have evolved over time.
And you're just like, yeah, it's a little better, but it's why do we have so many ways if you're
going to be that right. And so when I at least look at Python compared to like my background in
C++ or in C# or JavaScript, I feel like it's comfortable. It's not stale, but it's not,
we don't have five ways to do properties, you know, and that's, that's a good thing.
even if there's a better way to do it it might not be worth having two to three ways just just
for that for a slight advantage well thank you for the kind words yeah i mean we do have
the zen of python does kind of outline the journal guidelines we try to follow when doing making
these discussions decisions um for those who've never read the zen of python look just run import
this from the repl and you'll you'll find it uh and yeah it's just the it's just the way it's
design right we don't hopefully there's one and hopefully only one obvious way to do anything
and so it's just something we've kind of leaned into now granted things shift like i'm sure someone
pointed out the myriad of ways you can format a string now but a lot of that's backwards
compatibility and just realizing you know what we just have to accept the fact the first way we got
it is no longer the best way we can think of and it's enough of a jump from using string interpolation
with the percent sign to using f strings that it was worth adding a second way now maybe someday
we'll take out string interpolation i doubt it because it just works and it's just sitting there
and it's not worth breaking really old code but i mean yeah it's just the way we approach things
and luckily most people like it and i think that's kind of why some people always freak out is
the words afraid somehow we're going to go downhill from here and it's just the start of things or
somehow Python is going to be harder to learn.
Well, we very much try to make sure Python is a gradual curve of learning, right?
The basics are very straightforward and good.
And as you get into more advanced things like the match statement, right?
Like you'll be able to see it and understand it and it'll make sense, but not something
you'll necessarily learn the first month or two, but it's there for when you do need it,
right?
Like we very much try to make sure that everything makes sense on a curve from beginner to advanced
and try to make sure the language is useful to everyone from both a beginner to advanced
user.
It's tricky, but I'd like to do a decent job.
I think you are.
I think one of Python's really, one of its powers is that you can be super effective with it with a really partial understanding of what it is.
Yeah.
Right?
You don't have to understand namespaces, classes, async, et cetera, et cetera.
You're just like, well, I think I can write these four lines without even a function, and I'll get a cool graph that'll show my work or whatever, right?
Yep, exactly.
Yep.
So, and I think I have a pretty partial understanding of the match statement.
I know it can get pretty advanced in like how it captures and changes values, but I
wrote one yesterday with a partial understanding.
It went great.
Nice.
Yeah, indeed.
All right.
before we move on though, I got to go back to the, the, your opening because
you said I created this to understand, like if I were to solve that problem, your wife
ahead about like, you got to fix that thing about the browser.
And I know there's some folks in Texas who have thoughts on this as well.
And the PI script team, but is this a project you're actively working on?
Or just let me gather up, do some research and deep thinking about what is
actually in the language that would have to carry over or what, what is this?
We're not an active project of mine at the moment.
It ended up being mostly just an exercise
and just snowballed into a thing
where I just didn't want to stop until I completed it.
- Yeah.
How do you feel about the MicroPython
PyScript angle of approaching this?
- Yeah, I mean, I think it's great.
I mean, that was the other hopeful benefit
about all of this is trying to nail down
the definition of what Python is.
because I've heard those arguments made against MicroPython
that it's not quite Python
because it doesn't quite run all the syntax
or it doesn't have the entire standard library.
I've gotten into arguments with people online
where they got very upset when I suggested
that the REPL was an optional part of Python
and actually not a requirement.
And so I just viewed it as a learning experience for me,
hopefully a learning experience for others as well.
And then after that was just trying to hopefully
clarify like look this is truly what you have to have to really be python like you literally
cannot implement the rest of the language without this but everything else you could totally just do
it yourself you could totally just write your tool to make it all work and as long as this existed
you could totally get by with it and so that's kind of where i ended up i luckily the tooling around
WebAssembly got far enough along pyrdites continue to do well in the browser i've been working on the
WebAssembly, the system interface, WASI side of things, and that's been going pretty well.
So that's at least taken care of itself.
So I've ultimately not tackled the huge problem of trying to re-implement Python from scratch,
probably in Rust, just in a minimal fashion to try to make it work better in the browser.
That's probably a project for when I retire.
And I suspect that's at least a decade out, if not more.
So that's probably going to be put on the back burner for a while.
right yeah you could all install b python and run brett python built in rust there you go
uh it rust does seem to be having quite the influence an outsized influence for how popular
rust is in terms of the number of developers but it seems to be really leaving its mark on python
and other areas as well these days so yeah well i mean i will fully admit i have bias because i am
a fan and i do like using language but it's one of those things where if you've been living in the c
and c plus plus world and it never was that satisfying to you but you had to be there for
whatever reason and then you discover rust and it does things that saves you from a very chronic
set of problems yeah including yourself yeah um and you would hope that you people would notice
just unlatch onto it.
And I mean,
I think that's basically what's happened is people have just discovered that,
oh yeah,
this is useful and good.
And just,
there's enough CNC++ code in the Python community due to CPython C API
that it,
I think there's just a nice cross section,
right?
I think it's just one of these things where people have just gone like,
well,
I've got to be,
I got to do the system level programming anyway.
So I might as well use something that's seems like a better,
a little more modern language in the end.
Yeah.
A bit more modern.
And so I think that's kind of what's happened here.
- That makes sense.
All right, let's talk about the sugar.
- Okay.
- So I think we covered pretty much
what syntactic sugar is.
And yeah, you started this whole thing out saying
the goal of this is really to kind of nail down
that minimum Python.
And I agree that the REPL is optional.
I like the REPL, but just so I can also get mail about it.
I like the language, like you can't take away these features
once you add them, right?
And so it's like, what could you survive with as a minimum?
And then you can kind of like, what are the,
what's the extras?
- Yeah, what could you build up from there?
- Yes, exactly.
And the final destination maybe being CPython proper.
Yeah.
So you've got a whole bunch of different aspects of Python
are unraveling in this syntactic sugar.
And basically to highlight what's actually happening,
how much of this is going on as you've already laid out.
So I wanna point out that I'll link to,
I don't know how many articles you've got here,
but two years, like-
- 20, I think.
- Yeah, like it's looking like close to 30 maybe.
I don't know, just eyeball on it.
There's a lot there.
So I think I've picked half of those out
or some reasonable subset that we can talk about.
And there's some code and stuff in here.
So we'll kind of have like, my thought was we could just talk about kind of like, what
is the essence of this?
Like what's really happening when you do attribute access?
What's really happening when you write the word pass or use a width block as we've talked
about a little bit.
So the first one here is unraveling attribute access in Python.
You want to tell us a bit about what actually happens if you just say, you know, like object
dot attribute?
It seems so simple, Brett.
There's just one dot.
what's the big deal yeah why doesn't this just what's there to talk about i mean when i just do
some something dot something magically i get back what i expected but there's actually a lot going
on there right um and it it comes down to multiple layers but it's all ties around python's object
model right how do all because i always find this weird to say but python's more object oriented in
opinion in java right java has these primitive types like instant floats that have to get boxed
and unboxed to fake to make them look like an object to java itself python doesn't have that
everything is an object a function is an object an integer is an object like true is an object
seven is an object exactly there's nothing you can name in python that's not somehow an object
yep so that this idea of attributes and all this permeates permeates all the way down into the
the object model, which once again defines kind of everything in a way.
So the key thing here is there's kind of two parts to it.
It's how do you look up, how, how do you look up based on inheritance?
What thing is going to service the call asking what is this attribute value
basically, or what object is bound to this name for the attribute.
And after that is what methods are going to get called to make that happen.
Because effectively, almost everything in Python, at the end of the day, leads to a method call or a function call.
Yeah.
First of all, it leads to a lot of times to an opcode, which leads to a method call, right?
A Python bytecode thing.
I think it's maybe also worth pointing out, like have you point out to everyone listening is Python compiles to this intermediate language like Java and.NET compiled to intermediate languages.
just how what happens then right like in those other ones they they jit compile to machine instructions
here it goes through like the big c eval loop and delegates to some internal c operations and a lot
of those these unravelings like kind of look at what happens at that step right yeah so yeah so
c python itself is an interpreter right so what happens is when you load up your python code
is python parses it creates what's called an abstract syntax tree or ast it then takes that ast
does some stuff with it and then it compiles it down to python bytecode i actually gave a talk
on this at python canada way back when for those who are interested that basically goes from the
steps of literally source code all the way to execution if you want more detail but effectively
yeah we can pile it down to bytecode of our own design to then execute in more or less what's a big
for loop in c uh that is really big for a very big for loop um and it's gotten a bit fancier thanks to
the faster c python team right like there's now kind of like lower level opcodes that are very
type specific and we actually auto generate the loop now um thanks to them so that it's easier to
maintain and make tweaks to. But essentially, it's literally just a set of instructions
that are extreme, that kind of encompass key bits of semantics in Python. So for instance,
for attribute access, there's literally a opcode called load adder, right? Where on the execution
stack, you basically push the object you care about, the name of the thing you want, and then
you just call load adder on it and it'll just look it up.
Actually, technically, I guess it doesn't push the name on it.
That's technically stored in the function.
There's little details on kind of hand waving over,
literally hand waving if you're watching the live stream.
But effectively, you push the object you want,
you call load adder, give it an argument of what attribute it wants,
and then load adder opcode behind the scenes
is the thing that does all the magic of calling everything you'd expect,
et cetera, et cetera.
Yeah, excellent.
And to view that, a lot of times what you'll do
is you'll just use the dis module.
So if people haven't used dis,
you can just dis.dis,
a lot of disrespect on this function,
and then it tells you what the opcodes it's made of are.
Yeah, exactly.
I mean, dis is short for disassemble.
So literally you can pass it a function
and it will effectively disassemble
what the function does into the bytecode,
which is just stored as an attribute.
of bytes on the function object and print it out nicely
'cause the disk module knows how to map the bytes
to what the opcode's name is
and just gives it a nice way to look
and actually read and understand it.
- Yeah.
Okay.
And so then in this example, you said,
all right, look, here's the case statement
in that tremendous for loop switch thing
that does the execution.
What do we do if we see load adder?
And ultimately it comes down to this
pyobject_git adder.
So it seems so simple.
You just object.attribute, object.field, whatever.
But it turns out there's just so many variations
and so much going on down here.
And I don't necessarily want you to go through
all the details 'cause it's pretty,
some of it's pretty intense C and like a lot of it,
optimizations and stuff.
But like just give people a sense of what actually happens
in the guts.
Yeah.
Well, so in the case of attribute access,
it effectively ends up calling
the getAt or built-in function.
And in that case,
it needs to check
how many arguments it gets to start.
Did you give it two arguments
or did you give it three arguments
so you return a default value
if the attribute doesn't exist?
And then at the C level,
we have to check what you gave it
right? Because just like a Python level, the C code old types to what's called the to py object,
which is basically a massive struct in C that represents any and all Python objects. So even at
the C level, we don't know if you gave us a string or an integer, or what did you give us for the name
of the attribute that you want.
So we got to do that, right?
And so there's just basic,
like just safety checks to go like, nope.
Like when you, if you call git adder
with wanting the attribute 42,
which is a number,
it's going to throw a type error.
Well, that code's got to exist somewhere
and this is where it exists, right?
And then effectively just bubbles all down
to the C API where a lot of this stuff
gets exposed in its own way.
And specifically in this case,
ends up calling pi object git adder.
Yeah.
And I think another thing that's pretty interesting here is
it's not always just a value, right?
That object dot adder, that adder could be a property.
That adder could be a descriptor,
which I guess is a generalization of a property.
It could be on the class type, but not on the instance type.
You got to find that.
It could be on the instance type overriding, but only there, right?
Like it could not exist.
all of these scenarios that you got to go through.
And so it really, you know,
it really emphasizes how much is actually going on
in the runtime while this single simple line
seems to be running, right?
- Yeah, I mean, in the simple case, right?
Hitting the dots, not complicated.
Like in general, what you end up doing is you have your object,
you hit dot, and what it does is it looks in
the dunder decked attribute of the object.
And there's a key matching the attribute name
and it just gets the thing in the dictionary
and that's it, you're done.
But as you alluded to,
how the heck do you even get to that basic case?
Or those more complicated cases,
as you said, descriptors, right?
Which are how we actually implement properties.
Or if it's on the class versus the instance
and what happens if there's inheritance
or multiple inheritance.
Or dunder get at her was defined, right?
Like basically almost all of this ends up flowing through the git adder built in, which effectively ends up calling the appropriate dunder get attribute method off of an object.
And this is one of those bare level kind of things, right, where you have to implement this to make Python work.
You have to basically implement the git adder built in.
And it has to understand how objects are structured underneath the hood to know how basically methods and stuff are attached to an object.
You really can't fake that.
There's no way to not kind of have that as a low level detail that you can just unravel.
It has to be implemented by the interpreter.
And in this case, effectively, the way Python does things is it knows the order.
You can always actually call the MRO method on any object and it will return you the method resolution order.
And effectively what Python is doing is if it checks on something to see if it has it or not,
it will effectively end up calling the dunder get attribute object of method,
sorry,
on object.
And that's usually where it bottoms out.
And unless you happen to have a dunder git adder with that fails,
but that's only in the failure case,
but really in the end,
almost everything passes through object dot dunder get attribute.
And that's really where all this ends up going.
But as you said,
there's a lot of little twists and turns and yeah,
a lot of these internals you'll,
you see the method resolution order calls,
And it's all about, well, there's a lot of classes
and a lot of objects, they can override things
and they can override operators.
And so there's a lot of navigation to just figuring out,
not just calling these git adder type of things,
but like what level does that even supposed to happen on
given what I'm working with, right?
- Yeah, exactly.
And I think this is a good example.
And the reason I started with this, it's so fundamental, right?
Like, how do you unravel something
if you don't know how to even get an attribute off of something?
So this is why this was the very first post in this series
and partially why I went into such detail
on how to figure all this out, right?
Like, kind of one, this is almost a template
for anyone else who wanted to go exploring on their own.
But I think it's also a good example
of how much complexity and flexibility
Python hides from users
in order to make the simple work,
but give you the flexibility to make the complicated possible, right?
Like for the vast majority of any of us for our code,
it just does what you would think it would do
and it's pretty straightforward.
But as soon as you get into the fancy world of descriptors,
or- - SQLAlchemy.
- Yeah. - I can both have a value
or I can do a database query with the same thing.
How is that possible, right?
- Yeah. - You want that magic?
Language has to support it somehow.
And it requires a lot of finesse and thinking through
a lot of mechanisms that generally get hidden from you but someone's got to write that code somewhere
and in this case let's see python and this kind of outlines uh how that all happens and it's
surprisingly complicated it's not horrible that was my main takeaway too yeah i mean you can totally
read it and follow it i don't want to scare anyone saying it's so complex you can't follow it it's
just it's not just a simple like two if statements and you're done it's like no there's there's
There's subtlety to it to make sure the common semantics make sense to people.
It's not going to trip people up because it's doing something weird.
There's a lot of thought that goes into these semantics to make sure it makes sense for the common case.
Another takeaway I got from looking at this is, wow, it's nice that dictionaries are fast.
And how fast are they to make it possible to lean on them so much to make this happen?
Yeah, I mean, I will say when Guido chose to use dictionaries as the namespace, it was kind of a unique decision at the time.
It might still be, honestly.
But it did simplify some things conceptually and also made it so that any wins in how dictionaries work is just a massive win universally across language, right?
Like if you make dictionaries work in any way better,
you not only make it work when you just,
you personally use it as a data structure,
as a container,
but also literally every attribute access will get faster.
Right?
Like there's a reason why it's so fine tuned
and why we don't really touch it very much
because it's been tweaked over the decades
by a lot of people to be extremely fast
and for good reason.
Yep.
indeed one final thought on this um you know you think of optimizing both the memory and also the
performance a little bit by doing things like slots on your classes to maybe like short circuit some
of this it it feels like somewhere in this world lives like some kind of massive optimization that
maybe that if you said i'm gonna for this class i'm gonna give up some flexibility
is there some way attribute reads and writes could get lots faster i don't know what are you
i'm sure this has gone round and round it's such a hot it's just involved in almost every line of
python code stuff like this right oh yeah i mean and this plays into what the faster c python team
has been doing right trying to make things faster by um looking at uh what the patterns are and if
you can just kind of skip stuff, right?
Like how do you short circuit this thing?
Can you go like, well,
I just know this object's always looked this way.
Like this was some of the stuff
that the self-programming language team
at UC Santa Barbara did,
I think in the 70s, maybe 80s.
I'm just like, well,
if we know the layout of the object
is going to be consistent.
Yeah, can we go seven bytes in
and get four bytes?
I think that kind of thing, right?
Exactly.
And you just kind of have to,
and you start to be able to calculate their shortcuts and you're like, Hey, did anything
change from the last time I've made this assumption? No. Okay. Well then I can use my assumption.
That's right. Nobody's mocked it. Nobody's dynamically messed with it. Like maybe it is
just a plain thing until somebody puts it into an edge case. Is there a short circuit? Right?
Yeah. And I mean, I don't want to go off on a tangent, but I mean,
well, I'm one of 17 topics here, right? Like it'll probably got lots of time.
I have thought about like,
after doing this,
what,
is there something syntactic here to add,
right?
Is there a way to kind of come up with a effectively a class definition
that's way simpler for the really common cases that could be optimized
extremely fast because you give away some flexibility and then the
interpreter can make assumptions.
type I can make assumptions, et cetera, et cetera.
And would there be enough wins on that
to warrant doing it, right?
Like, could we take the concept of kind of a data class
that was just data roughly
or something along those lines?
And just what could we get out of it?
And what kind of perf wins could we get out of it?
And would it be worth it?
Would it be worth adding syntax to the language
for that case?
If you look at Mojo, for instance,
They have a struct.
And that struct works in a very specific way for performance
because when you say like this thing can't have new attributes,
which you can do with slots.
And for those of you who don't know what slots are,
if you define a dunder slots attribute on your class,
you're effectively telling Python, don't create a dictionary for me.
Just create effectively a list underneath.
It's technically a C array.
And when I need to access something, just get it off this array.
So there's no dictionary.
You can skip all that dictionary overhead.
Plus you shrink the memory because now the only amount of memory you need is that array for pointers to the pie objects and not a dictionary which grows and shrinks and who knows what size it's going to be.
If we had that built in syntactically, would that be beneficial to people or not?
And I have a prototype in Python code of what I'm thinking of.
I did a blog post on this earlier this year
to try to feel out people in the community
and what they thought in terms of restrictions
and would that be too much or too little.
I've subsequently prototyped what I wanted
and there'll be a follow-up blog post about
this is where it sits now.
What do people think?
And do people think this is worth trying to get syntax for?
Just don't worry about it.
It's too close to data classes or what?
- Maybe it could be a keyword to the data class decorator
that just makes it behave differently.
Who knows?
- Yeah, but so unfortunately the tricky bit with that
is it's still flowing through Python code, right?
Data classes is still just a module in the standard library.
So you can't, it's really hard to optimize that stuff
without syntax to specifically say,
hey, this will be different.
You get to treat it differently
and we can literally lock it down
by literally creating a different type of object
at the C level that just literally doesn't give you access.
Right?
Like tuples are a good example, right?
tuples at the c level very much just don't implement the stuff that let you mutate it
right like right webs if we want to do that for classes like how do you do frozen data classes it's
a ton of properties but whams if we had a way to just say like yep nope we're just literally not
giving you access with that how much faster could that be like i i don't know but i suspect it would
be decently faster yeah computers are surprisingly fast dictionaries are surprisingly fast but
But there's a lot of stuff here that could be skipped
that I think might be interesting.
To me, I had the same thought, at least.
Probably not with the level of sophistication you did,
but like, wow, there's some way to sort of do a more of a C style,
just like we know the structure and the offsets.
Yeah.
Like for a restricted set,
because that restricted set is mostly what people do actually do in Python.
They don't go crazy dynamic with stuff coming and going,
like sometimes, but not usually.
Yeah, I mean, you can go read my original blog posts.
And if you follow me on Massathon, you can see the follow-up conversations.
But, like, the original thing, if you've been a long-time Java user, you don't know the acronym POJO, plain old Java object.
It was effectively the equivalent for Python.
Some people love that idea.
Some people are like, I really need methods.
I can't not have methods kind of thing.
it really depends on what people are after and what what they think makes sense but there will
be a follow-up blog post so if you follow my blog you'll eventually see what this hopefully all leads
to which may be nowhere beyond what i put up on pipe pi but who knows maybe maybe it'll become
syndact someday it really depends on how the community reacts to it cool well i didn't know
you're looking into that so very interesting next one let's move on to something that also seems
is pretty straightforward is A minus B.
- Yeah, right.
- Yeah, exactly.
You think it makes, yeah.
How hard can A minus B be, right?
Like two objects just subtracting from one another, right?
We all know how this works.
There's, I mean, there's an op code
just called binary subtract.
Just like there's binary add,
a binary multiply, binary divide.
- You put the numbers on the register,
you do the instruction set on the CPU and you're good to go.
yeah, hey, I know what five minus three is.
How much work can it be to make that work in Python?
Oh, yeah.
The numbers happen to be arbitrarily large.
And sometimes they're not numbers.
Sometimes they're matrices or strings or, oh, boy, okay.
Exactly.
And subtraction is not communicative.
So order matters here.
So, yeah, it gets surprisingly complicated very quickly.
Yeah.
So, yeah.
From a conceptual level, yeah, it seems simple.
But when you figure out what that opcode actually does,
it becomes way fancier.
Yeah.
And so as you dig into this,
you start to realize like,
okay,
so this is actually controlled by the Dunder sub operator on the type.
Right.
And then how do you get that method?
Well,
this is the method resolution order on that type.
So you got to start navigating that.
And that gets pretty interesting,
right?
Yeah.
Well,
and let's be clear here.
You're a bit foreshadowing because you said,
oh, you called the dunders up. Yeah. To start if that works, right? Like there's some,
for a lot of these things, there's lots of fallback to once again, give you that flexibility to make
things work as necessary. So for a lot of things in Python, you can return the not implemented
singleton, which you may have, some people may have noticed and wonder what the hell is this
thing for? And it's a single to signal to Python that, Hey, there's not, it's not that an error
happened. It's just, I just don't know how to handle this. Right. So for instance, if let's say
you have left-hand side minus right-hand side, right? So the first step is you check to see
if the left-hand side has a dunder sub method. Okay. If it does, you can call that with
left-hand side dot dunder sub and pass in right-hand side. Well, that method has the option
to do something and return a value.
And that's what left-hand side minus right-hand side becomes.
Or it can return not implemented and say,
just tell Python, nope, I don't know how to do this.
Probably should ask someone else, right?
And then this adds an extra little wrinkle now
because suddenly when you do that, that says,
okay, well, you know what?
Let's give the right-hand side a try.
Maybe the right-hand side knows how to do
left-hand side minus right-hand side.
It might not be the front thing,
but it might just magically know, right?
So in this case, for instance, let's say you could have something of your fancy object minus four, which would be your dunder sub method.
And so you know how to handle integers and it works.
But what happens if it's four minus your object?
Yeah.
Four doesn't know what to do.
Four's never seen your thing before.
I don't know what the heck to do here.
so in that case four would return not implemented saying i don't know what to do here good luck to
you maybe you'll figure it out and in this case your objects dunder our sub would get called with
four and then maybe you'll be able to say like hey i might not be on the left hand side but i know how
to handle myself on the right hand side and i can make this work so we try to make sure that
even if some other objects don't know how to work with you as if you're involved there's at least
the opportunity for you to make it work yeah that's pretty interesting yeah an example could
be like the number four a constant minus a vector it's meant to be like a mathematical vector and
it's like okay we just subtract that from every dimension right and that would be exactly totally
reasonable but the four has no idea how to do that yes yeah and this is still the simple case
yeah so if uh i'll need a ref i need a slight refresher on this one but um effectively
there's scenarios here where um you call the right hand side first if it's i can't remember if the the
the um the left-hand side one can say i don't know what to do with this object i think in return and
not implemented from the subtract right something like that right there's also a subtle optimization
in these binary operators where if it is a direct subclass of the other object you get first dibs
oh right right right so that that's the thing so once again yeah there's a lot of spam and bacon
and vegetable spam and stuff that you did.
And yeah,
people can check out.
It gets surprisingly complicated,
but the thing here,
basically this is the C of a left-hand side and a right-hand side,
right?
Once again,
left-hand side minus right-hand side,
left-hand side might be an integer.
Your right-hand side though,
might be a subclass of integer,
like fancy integer.
Okay.
Now,
if you do int minus fancy int,
it will understand how to do it.
because you're a subclass.
So it's just going to do it.
And it'll just do the math
and return you whatever it is.
So like if you did five minus fancy three,
five is going to return the integer two.
But maybe that's not what you want
with your fancy int.
Maybe you'd rather get fancy int two.
So how does Python make sure
that you get that opportunity
if you happen to be on the right-hand side
instead of the left-hand side?
Yeah.
Well, in that case, Python checks first.
Okay, I have a left-hand side
and the right-hand side for subtraction.
Is the right-hand side a direct subclass
of the left-hand side?
If that's true, then you know what?
I'm going to give the right-hand side a chance first
so that they can return their subclass
and not have the left-hand side kind of just blindly
not realize that it's a different type
and return something else.
So that when it's, as I said, five minus fancy three,
we actually give fancy three the first chance
instead of five so that you have the chance
return fancy two like you wanted and not have five itself returned boring too yeah so i think
one example that comes to mind that i think might be relevant would be working with units so we've
got cool libraries like pint and others where you can say this is not just uh the number five but
this is five kilograms and if i subtract you know a hundred milligrams from it it's not negative 95
it's you know four point whatever nine five or whatever it turns out to be um and so in this
case if you took a regular number and one of these numbers with units you could get a number with
units back potentially yeah yeah that's a very good example right this is where those once again
very simple syntax that in the common case and in your general use day-to-day makes total sense and
happens has some really important but subtle if you don't know about them semantics to make sure
that those reasonable expectations are met, right?
Like I totally didn't even think about this
when I was writing this blog post that like,
oh yeah, God, that's a good point.
Like I do wanna make sure that I get my special version
of everything when I happen to be on the right-hand side,
just 'cause I happen to be written on the right-hand side.
- Yeah.
- Plus is a really good example in this one, right?
Like you could have written A plus B or B plus A,
makes zero difference.
I mean, that operator is supposed to be communicative.
So it could be totally just dumb luck
based on how I just happened to be thinking that day,
what I put on the left side
and what I put on the right side.
And that would suddenly make a difference.
And in this case, it just helps make sure
that what you would think is the priority order
of who you'd want to handle this for you
gets that priority.
But once again, it's a thing
you just never think about day to day.
But in actuality, when you think about
the really key ways that Python operates,
makes a surprising difference.
that seemingly leakiness at the language of like,
well,
sometimes it gives you an answer.
Some,
it doesn't depend on how you add how people wouldn't love that.
Yeah.
And then the last bit of subtlety on that one is this only happens if,
by the way,
Dunder seven,
Dunder R sub are different.
So that's another check we do because at the C level,
they're actually equivalent.
Like there is no left side versus right side thing here.
so we actually check to make sure we don't waste our time asking you hey can you do this and get
back not not implemented and then calling it a reverse and getting the exact same result because
underneath it all is the exact same method right so it's one of those fun things of once again lots
of little things here to try to optimize as you said as best we can where and in this case it's
one of those well if we know you're not going to work this way with the exact same method we just
swap the order of this stuff why are we going to ask you again so we just skip that so it's a
minor thing but yeah semantics are there to try to help help with the performance i think people
as people go through your series here i think they're going to get a deep appreciation for
edge cases yeah subtlety yeah yeah i mean the last few days i learned a lot i mean it was one
of the reasons i finished it is i finished this series as well even though i part way through
went like yeah you know what i'm i'm not going to implement python from scratch um but i was
learning enough and it was fun like i i got to dive a bit deep i got to ask the python core team
is like from people primarily guido who obviously were there when these decisions were like what why
this way like why did we choose this and just trying to understand not somewhat historically
how did these things happen right like i think a lot of people don't realize how old python is
right like february 1991 is when python came out it predates Linux going public like people really
forget that fact it's been around for over 32 years yeah decisions were made a long time ago
and i know everyone got all upset over the two to three transition and some people still got upset
whenever we push new changes whatever but do realize you just you just canceled three seven
I like that version.
But the key thing here is the core concepts still work, right?
Subtraction still works, right?
From the way it worked back then.
There's not been a massive upheaval here.
It's just a lot of us end up using stuff that's kind of fancy.
And sometimes the fancy stuff gets a little tweaks and stuff,
but the really core low level stuff really hasn't shifted very much.
So if at all, depending on your view.
sense of the timing like the release of python predates by a couple years the release of the web
right the web was 93 i think and so yeah yeah one of the early browsers was actually guido
was writing in python and tk incredible gradle so we talked about simple things like thing dot value
a minus b the next simple one is the import statement because imports are simple
honestly i think imports are they if you come from a compiled language they're really
you've really got to change your mindset right so i think this one actually is maybe the opposite
end of that spectrum a little oh yes i i will fully out my co some of my co-workers who uh are
because vs code is written in typescript as an electron app and so they live in typescript all
day long the fact that pythons imports work the way they are in terms of flexibility and just
it works and you're not just specifying file paths to everything just really throws them for a loop
and they go like why is it so complicated once again the flexibility that python gives you where
the base case normal case of if you just do things the way just kind of just it's python code and
directory kind of thing just works versus i can also import something from a url if i want
that's totally optional you know i could keep all my code in a sqlite database and import from there
totally possible right so it's one of these things once again where if you're coming from
a python mindset of just what makes sense it all just works i realize when you come in with an
outside perspective it can look kind of crazy but you also have to understand that a lot of the
designs were made a decades ago and b there's a lot of flexibility there that you may or may not be
taken advantage of but there are others who are and so that's kind of why it exists that way yeah
indeed and yes this posts yeah i uh so for those of you don't know i actually am responsible for
import lib and re-implementing python's import system in python itself and so i know these details
a little too well yeah so still have nightmares about some of them no luckily uh it luckily import
importlib in terms of actual import itself,
like I'm ignoring importlib.resources
or importlib.metadata.
Jason Coons mainly manages those modules.
It's been stable enough for long enough now
that there's no real crazy surprises anymore.
Honestly, the biggest headache
is people doing imports in their threads.
So my word of advice to everyone,
don't do imports in threads.
If you're going to do imports,
do them on your main thread up front,
then find your threads.
don't do imports as a side effect of anything either right it's circular imports same thing it's
just just just don't your life will be so much easier but that's honestly where any of the bug
reports that ever come in come from is due to either circular imports and people wondering why
or weird race conditions with threads on imports and just trying to get the locking down
such that things lead to the right outcome um actually 3 12 almost got held up a little bit
due to a slight memory leak from the newest version of um tracking imports via threads
um there's a slight leak of it basically an empty dictionary every time you did an important
different thread and we didn't want to have that leak so we cleaned it up but
yeah it once had a lot of subtlety oh we got lots of memory bro we don't need to worry about those
things anymore no just kidding yeah there's no reason everyone gets excited every time apple
launches a new m m chip right we we've had enough processing power since we got someone on the moon
with how many hemi hemi hertz exactly no one needs more than seven hertz you know the favorite
fan saying that's good um so you know one of the real big differences i think here is that like
import runs code right like rather than tells the compiler these things are in scope if you want them
but no it it's like running code and if people are wondering where that weird dunder name equals
dunder main so you don't run too much code during imports and those sorts of things right yeah
actually and this is an interesting case where um it's very much syntactic sugar but it's also very
much syntactic sugar actually for the bytecode yeah so the thing here is when you do import spam
right or whatever module you want to import it effectively ends up being a call to the dunder
import built-in function where it passes in spam is the name and then it passes in all the globals
and the locals uh for where it gets called uh for name resolution and stuff like this is where
you do relative imports with dot you know like yeah exactly when i first saw like why are all
these arguments going to import you just need to know where a a.pi or the package a lives and
you're good to go until you say you know dot dot this or from dot yeah from dot dot a import b kind
of stuff like there's a surprising amount of information you need to pass in to do those
kinds of resolutions and such from imports right all that kind of thing to make sure those things
all exist because what you're effectively doing you know from import is if you list multiple ones
you're basically importing the module that those things are in and making sure that attribute gets
set on the thing you're wanting so that you can then grab it later and all sorts of stuff but the
other key thing is the dunder import function is structured to kind of make the opcode easier
right because it's very structured to just push things onto the snack the python's executing
and then make the call to dunder import where it's just like yeah everything's already there
right but it's also why it's so funky you should never call it directly in your own code
right like dunder imports very much it's borderline implementation detail on this kind of thing this
is why you should use import lib dot import module right that function exists specifically and
i designed it specifically for those cases where you need to do dynamic imports and you want a very
clean simple api because like the return type for dunder import very much is designed for the op code
so that whether you're doing an import some something or from something import other thing
right like the return value makes sense or that for the bytecode level does not make sense for
human beings right so once again do not call them to import directly you should always be calling
import lib.import module if you need something dynamically or just use the word import yeah or
Or just import.
Yeah, just import.
Yeah.
Right up here, you have all the different variations.
Like, what does it mean to say from thing import something as,
or just import something, or relative imports,
so people can see all the different,
again, back to that flexibility that you talked about.
Exactly.
So it's definitely one of these things, though,
where in the end, it effectively just boils down to a function call.
That piece of syntax of import really is just a function call
with an assignment in the end.
And it's really all it is.
It's the unraveling,
all the trickery is really behind the Dunder import function.
But the actual syntax is not crazy, actually.
But it literally is a function call.
You can fully re-implement import.
Yeah, just calling Dunder import
and just doing the proper assignment.
Nice.
Some confirmation of your advice out there.
Nathan says, my data science professor
always says the same thing.
Import first.
which is good um but also is there a way to remove syntactical sugar on an example but not fully
through just disassembly i yeah i mean so you could you can actually um write a tool that will
take python syntax and unravel it i actually started it but it was just too much of a headache
because there's so many variations and edge cases and all that stuff to handle and there was no
uh package out there that that was gonna that quite did what i needed to do to make my life easier
and what's the canonical destiny what's the destination right like if i undo a a you know
a with statement on a lock like how far do i want to go back you know yeah well and i can understand
people wanting to do it to maybe learn but i mean it's going to be a learning thing not really a
performance thing or it might be slower right because some of this stuff is happening at the
c level no yeah exactly like if you go back to our a plus b example it actually definitely
will be slower um as things as things happen in python because um once again with the speed
performance improvements that have been going in like the byte code is able to go like
all right is this an int and an int okay well then we know exactly how to integer math let's just do
it right and then it can add cards in and go like okay quick check a b yes okay do the binary
int add thing right where it just very very obviously does that but if you unravel it you
can't do that because now you're just doing method calls right you can't hide those details anymore
and put all that stuff.
- Exactly.
- But yeah, but to answer the question,
you totally could write a tool to do this.
And I kind of started one and it just wasn't fun.
So I just stopped because I just had a lot of things.
- Sometimes you see this in the editor as well,
when like editors will give you previews.
So for example, if you use optional of a thing
or thing pipe none,
and then you hover over it in the editor,
even if you used optional, it'll say thing pipe none,
Cause it, it's like those mean the same thing.
I'm going to just represent them in one way.
And yeah.
Yeah.
Interesting.
Okay.
We have a bunch more things to cover, but we don't have really any time.
Like my goal with this, having you on here to talk about this stuff, it's
really kind of like the highlight the whole series and people should go.
And we've been kind of hand waving cause reading C code on air is not ideal.
No, I think it'd be all an idea, but really to highlight your whole series
and people can just dive into this pretty deep.
And I think they'll have a much better appreciation
for when you write this one line,
oh my goodness, this is actually what's happening.
- And how I actually found a bug in Python, thanks to it.
- Okay, tell us quick about that.
- Well, I mean, it's covered in the
in-place binary operator, augmented assignment post.
So you know how you can do A plus equals B
And it's like doing A equals A plus B.
Yeah.
So it turned out it was broken for PAL.
So when,
so when,
you know,
when you could do a star,
star B,
that's a to the B power.
Yeah.
It turned out the semantics were busted for star,
star equals.
Wow.
Okay.
And no one had ever noticed because obviously people do not write custom
implementations of,
uh,
Thunder pal.
Uh,
cause effectively what turned out was,
uh,
And someone actually discovered it and reported it.
I just didn't know about it.
That basically, when you did that, so the in-place augmented assignment, there's I versions of everything.
Like I add, Dunder I add, Dunder I mall, Dunder I pow, right?
Turns out for all of them, they did the right thing, except for power, where it would check for I pow.
And I mean, in all these scenarios,
because A plus equals B is the same as A equals A plus B.
If the I version returns not implemented,
it falls back to just doing the binary operator
and then doing the assignment, right?
So like if I plus, so I plus equals B
unravels to A dot IPAL with B as an argument.
If that return is not implemented,
then it devolves into A plus B, A equals the result of that.
In the POW case, if you return not implemented on Thunder iPow,
it didn't fall back to POW, Thunder POW.
It just crashed.
I don't know what to do here.
It was just an exception.
It was like, yeah, no.
I suppose that's better than the wrong answer.
Like actually, the square of nine is 18.
It threw me for a loop because I wrote code to verify all my unraveling.
And for power, the augmented assignment for power just kept not working.
And it was like, what the heck's going on?
And then I had to dig into the C code.
And I was like, wait a second.
That code in Rebels calling this C code, calling this C code.
And it didn't check that return value on calling it under iPow.
It's like, well, did it return not implemented?
And if it did, then we've got to try the other version.
It just didn't.
It's just like, oh, no.
It's just the value just got returned.
It just didn't even check.
And I think we figured out it happened when the third argument to POW got added.
And it was just someone overlooked it.
But it's been sitting there for years.
I mean, you don't want it to be overlooked.
But yeah, you're looking through these things.
You can tell that they're pretty subtle.
There's a lot going on in the different special cases.
So I can see it wouldn't hit you in the face that you necessarily miss something right away.
Exactly.
Yeah.
I don't fault anyone at all.
I think we were just missing a test case somewhere to make sure that that happened.
And once again, I don't think people define their own custom power operator for their types.
There's a whole bunch of mathematicians going, but we do.
We do.
Or physicists or something.
Yep.
All right.
We're pretty much out of time to go any deeper on this.
And I think that's all right.
I think people got a really good sense of what's happening, like what you mean with your series here.
And hopefully they're inspired to go check it out.
But I do, while I have this import stuff on the screen,
and you've done so much work with ImportLib,
will there ever be a time where like hot reload type of stuff is a thing?
You know, like I edit this file in this web app,
and it's got this project, it's been running,
and I just, just maybe could we have a file watcher trigger this module to re-import?
I'm not necessarily saying it's a good idea, but have you,
Do you want automatic import lib.reload?
Yes.
Or even like the lib reload stuff,
a lot of times you can do it,
but it's kind of discouraged
because I think largely because of the side effects.
What can happen there?
No.
So to be very specific,
if you call a module,
if you call import lib.reload on a module,
it effectively reruns import on that module.
The problem is,
is all the references you have to objects
don't change.
So if you got something
out of that module,
like let's say there's a global
dictionary that you stored a reference to a way
that you expected.
Or a function or a class.
Exactly.
And then you call reload.
Everyone else in the future is going to get the new module
and they'll get the new version of all
the things that were in that module.
But all that stuff you still have reference to do, that didn't get
magically taken away or garbage collected.
And we can't really necessarily swap it underneath
you are there because the whole type could have changed right right so i mean if you really wanted
to set up your own import system that does file monitoring and omic calls import.reload you could
totally do that today there's there's nothing stopping you but you have to just be very aware
that only sometimes will it have a good effect yeah it'll have an effect yeah it's just whether
it's going to do what you expect and that's and that's why import.reload is discouraged because
often don't quite understand the side effects and the things you have to watch out for
to understand that it's going to do what you expect and yeah especially when you import
do from imports right because then you're getting the direct objects off the module instead of the
module itself because like if it doesn't in place re-import so like if you did import spam and you
reloaded spam, the attributes
off of spam will now be the new stuff
because we actually changed that
dictionary in place. But if you did from spam
import
function, function is not going to change.
There's another reason
why I always tell everybody, don't
import
the objects from a module, import to the module.
I personally
find it more readable because I can look at the code
no matter where I am in the file and know where that
function came from. It's not from this module.
somewhere i am always with you i'm almost never from thing import other thing yeah unless it's
a deep module in a package in which case that makes sense because you'll still do module dot thing
right right well even though i have that if it's like four levels deep i'll do the first three and
then from the first three import the last last step of the module so you can say like data layer dot
you know exactly update rather than just update like what does update mean i don't know exactly
Yeah. I mean, the canonical example is random. You see the function random in your code.
Whose random is that? Is that from the random module? Is that from NumPy?
Did you implement random? Whose random is that?
Yeah.
You just know.
But if you saw np.random, you'd know.
Exactly.
If you know what np was.
If you did, of course.
All right. Well,
Brett, I guess give you a chance to kind of summarize final, final thoughts here on your
syntactic sugar series and, you know, tell people how to get it and stuff.
Yeah. I mean, you can go to my blog. It's on snarky.ca. It has the tags and tactics
sugar. I'm sure Michael will include it in the show notes. Don't feel the need to read all of it,
but do look at at least the first one or two, because I do go into more detail on how you can
kind of go exploring on your own in very in way more detail in those posts than i do towards the
end because i'll be honest i lost a bit of steam and going diving into all the deep layers
i wanted to get the blog post series done after two years so it was one of those
okay go look at the earlier ones they'll explain how to how to figure out how to go from syntax to
the bytecode to the c code and then know where to look in the c code which by the way you don't have
to understand the C code. It's not, A is not crazy C code, but it's also not necessarily critical.
I do try to write down the Python equivalents for everything. So it's there if you do understand C,
but don't feel intimidated if you don't. And hopefully you just find it interesting, right?
Like you've always wondered how the heck does this work? If it's in that, if it's in the blog post,
you'll be able to have a better understanding hopefully of how things work. Because as I said,
I honestly even learned some details that I forgot or never even knew about some of the semantics
behind python and how what how things actually work underneath the hood and just gave me a better
understanding to understand when things do and don't happen the way i expect and just honestly
appreciate all the work everyone's put into language over the decades to make it all seemingly seem
simple and yet it's surprisingly complex yeah i don't think you need to read them all either
as somebody who read most of them the last couple days no you don't but i do if you're a completionist
go for it. But yes, you definitely do not need to. But I do think going through it,
pick out the ones, there's a whole bunch of different topics. Pick out the ones that are,
you're like, oh, I did always wonder how that one worked. And pretty much with the exception of pass,
I think you'll be like, oh my gosh, I had no idea what was involved here.
Yeah. Pass was very much just a, I had a checklist of every piece of syntax and every single keyword.
And that was, the blog post on pass, I think is like three sentences and half of it saying,
this is going to be the shortest post in this whole series.
Yeah.
It was contending with dot, dot, dot,
which we haven't even had a chance to talk about
ellipses versus pass,
but I think we're out of time, Brett.
So thanks for being here.
Thanks for all you do.
I mean, steering council, core dev, author, VS Code, et cetera.
A lot of contributions.
Thanks.
Thanks for having me back on yet again.
And hopefully I've not worn out my welcome still.
No, you're already thinking about what next WebAssembly Rust thing we'll get together on.
Thanks for being here.
See you later.
Thanks, Michael.
Yep.